All right, so it's time
for some coding examples with methods.
I've created a new project for this section
of the course called Methods.
So we wanna create a class here called TestPathsByValue.
All right, so here's the code.
So you can see first here we're setting up some primitive
data variables, some strings, some string builders.
And then we're getting into putting out some values
and hashCodes, prior to our method call.
We're actually doing some method calls
and printing out the hashCode values after the method calls.
So basically, we're printing out the hashCode
as well the values of the string objects
and the string builder objects
before and after the method calls to determine equality.
And that's because the hashCode,
when two objects are equal as per the equals method
in Java, must return the same integer result.
In other words, putting in the hashCode
will confirm that the reference didn't change
after the method return to the calling main method.
And we're also doing a test there
with primitive variables as well with two n's.
So let's just run the code.
Now there's the output down at the bottom.
You can see there, we've got before method call,
abc.hashCode value which is abcdef
with the various values there.
I'll just make this a bit bigger so you can read it.
So you can there confirming that abc
had the same hashCode before and after the method call,
even though the value changed.
And same for def as well as aString and bString.
So the point here is that the hashCodes
of the string and string builder objects didn't change.
However, the values of the string builder objects did,
the actual values themselves.
Notice I started earlier and we've verified here
the primitive data-type variables
and the string values didn't change.
All right.
The following slide is a review
of some of the rules for the return type of methods.
So we're looking at some valid return examples first.
So, first one, Number getNumber parentheses,
then the left to right curly brace is
the return Integer.valueOf one in parentheses.
So here you can return a subtype of a declared return type.
Here an integer is a subtype of number.
Next one.
Number Getnumber parentheses
left to right curly braces return null.
You can return a null for a reference type return type,
as we're doing here.
Next, long getNumber parentheses
left to right curly braces and then the code.
In the method block is int myInt equals two
then return myInt.
You can return a narrower primitive data type
if the return type is a primitive.
Okay, moving on,
the next one is long getNumber parentheses
left to right curly braces
then return Long with a capital L,
so it's the uppercase.valueOf
and then 101 in parentheses.
You can return a primitive data type wrapper
if the return type is a primitive.
Moving on.
Long getNumber parentheses
and then we've got left to right curly braces
and then the actual code is return Integer.valueOf
and in parentheses 10.
You can return a wrapper of a primitive to a primitive
that is the same or wider.
And the last one, the other example I've got here
is public void returnNothing parentheses
left to right curly braces
then return by itself on the line followed by a semicolon.
You can just have a return statement
returning no reference or primitive
when the method definition is void as it is here.
Looking at some invalid return examples.
We've got Integer getNumber parentheses
left to right curly braces and then the actual code is
Number n equals Integer.valueOf and 10 in parentheses
and return n.
You cannot return a supertype of the defined returned type.
Moving on, public void returnNothing parentheses
left to right curly braces return null.
You can't return null if the return type is void.
Next, long getNumber parentheses
left to right curly braces and return null.
You cannot return null if the return type is a primitive.
And the last invalid example,
int getNumber parentheses
left to right curly braces return 10L.
You cannot return a primitive
that is larger than the return type.
So finally in this video,
I want to talk a bit about constructors.
A constructor is a special method used in the creation
of an object that's an instance of a class.
The constructor method name must be the same
as the class name.
The constructor method does not have
any return type, including void.
The return statement cannot be used in a constructor.
The constructor method is required,
but you don't have to declare one.
If you declare zero constructors in a class,
Java will create an implicit noargs constructor
with the same access modifier as the class
and a call to super,
which executes the parent's constructor.
If you declare one or more constructors,
Java will not create an implicit
no arguments constructor for you,
even if you do not self declare a noargs constructor.
Let's verify this bit in code.
We're gonna create a class called ConstructorExample.
So there's our code.
Now this code's got three classes.
Firstly, we've got class Atest,
and you can see defined no constructor defined,
in fact no fields either.
Btest.
You can see that's extending Atest,
and it's got one constructor that takes a name parameter
and sets the name field on Btest.
Nothing particularly complex about that.
And then our third class, the ConstructorExample class,
that instantiates it into the Btest
using the Btest constructor with one parameter.
What you can't see there,
is that ATest has a default noargs constructor created
under covers by the compiler
that actually gets called
when the Btest constructor starts executing.
Let's run this.
There's the basic output so far.
Nothing really much to talk about yet.
What we'll do now is I'm going to add
a no arguments constructor to ATest.
We're gonna demonstrate that save
and then we're gonna specifically call that.
It does get called.
Let's go ahead and do that.
Okay, so there's our no arguments constructor.
If we run this code,
you can see that ATest constructor is called
even though there's no explicit call to it in our code.
But moving on,
if we go back to our Btest constructor,
and edit call to super
at the first line in the constructor,
you can see there that there's no change to the output.
In other words, the results are the same.
Clearly here we can see
that whether you specify it explicitly or not,
a parent's default constructor is executed anyway.
Let's remove the super call there.
Let's change the constructor in ATest to take a parameter.
Note that we're actually changing the code.
I'm gonna do that.
I'm just going to replace the no arguments constructor
with a one argument constructor.
Very simple as you can see.
Now if we run the code again,
this time we've got an error.
There's no default constructor available in ATest.
Again, the code has an implied call to super
from the Btest constructor,
but now we don't have a no arguments constructor
because we specified a constructor in ATest
that takes one argument.
The compiler did not implicitly create one for us,
because we created another constructor.
Now we've got two options,
to create a no arguments constructor for ATest ourselves,
or to make a call to super passing the parameter,
which I'll do now.
Super name
on the code.
We can see that it's working again.
I'll be talking more about constructors
when we visit inheritance in a future video.
It is important to remember two things
about constructors though:
If you don't define one, you'll get one anyway
with no arguments and an implicit call to super.
If you do declare one,
and your class is a child of another class,
the implicit call to super is still there
even if you do not explicitly call super yourself.
Now, we're gonna be examining more cases in the next video
on the add of ordinary uses of methods.
See you in the next video.